= RLetters

Welcome to RLetters, an open-source Rails web application designed for the maintenance of a large database of academic journal articles.  Journal article content is stored in a {Solr}[http://lucene.apache.org/solr/] backend, and tools are provided to perform various text-mining and digital humanities work on the article text.

RLetters is developed by the Digital Humanities Working Group at the University of Notre Dame.  The lead developer is {Charles Pence.}[http://charlespence.net]  The source to RLetters is freely available under the MIT License, and is {hosted at GitHub.}[http://github.com/cpence/rletters]


== Features

* Maintain a large index of academic journal publications.
* "Web-application" interface built with {jQuery Mobile}[http://jquerymobile.com], accessible on the desktop, tablet devices, and smartphones.  Advanced integration available with Apple iOS devices.
* Complex full-text searching of this index using the search facilities provided by {Solr}[http://lucene.apache.org/solr/] (and its underlying {Lucene}[http://lucene.apache.org/java/docs/index.html] engine).
* Export your database in a variety of export formats (RIS, EndNote, RefWorks, BibTeX, MARC, MARCXML, MODS, etc.).
* {unAPI}[http://unapi.info/] support for connecting with bibliography managers like {Zotero.}[http://www.zotero.org]
* Advanced text-mining tools, including term frequency information, term concordances, etc. (This is the current active area of RLetters development, much more powerful text-mining tools will be added in the next several versions.)


== Get RLetters

Currently, the only way to retrieve the RLetters source is to {check out a copy from our GitHub repository.}[http://github.com/cpence/rletters]  RLetters is under active development -- anything can (and will!) break at any time.


== Installation and Setup

=== Install Rails and the RLetters bundle

Configure Rails {in the usual manner,}[http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html] and check out a copy of RLetters.  Install the required gems for RLetters using <tt>bundle install</tt>.

=== Set up a Solr server

Install Solr, using the schema provided at <tt>solr/schema.xml</tt>.  You may then populate the Solr database in the usual manner, sending documents formatted like the sample document provided at <tt>solr/sample-document.xml</tt>.  (In the sample document, the <tt>fulltext</tt> attribute is merely the abstract of the given article; you will want to replace this with the proper full-text of the document.)

=== Customize application configuration

Copy the default configuration file from <tt>config/config.yml.dist</tt> to <tt>config/config.yml</tt> and edit it.  Modify the various variables to point to the URL of your Solr server, the various application name variables, and (optionally) a Google Analytics account and a {Mendeley Consumer API Key.}[http://dev.mendeley.com/]

=== Customize the static content

For each of the following files, copy them from <tt><filename>.dist</tt> to <tt><filename></tt>, replacing their content with content appropriate for your application.  You may also localize these static content files by making copies of, for example, <tt>index.html.markdown</tt> to <tt>index.es.html.markdown</tt>, <tt>index.de.html.markdown</tt>, and so on.

-   <tt>views/about/index.html.markdown.dist</tt>: The "about us" page, linked from a button at the top of the homepage.

Now you've got some images to customize.

-   First, <tt>public/images/error-watermark.png</tt>.  This is an image shown in the bottom-left corner of the site's error pages (as well as the page shown to web-app users when they attempt to access RLetters without an internet connection).  Something like 500x300 pixels is a good size for this image.
-   Now, the iOS splash images and icons:
    -   <tt>h/apple-touch-icon.png</tt>: 114x114 pixel iOS application icon.  This is used on Retina Display-capable iPhones.
    -   <tt>m/apple-touch-icon.png</tt>: 72x72 pixel iOS application icon.  This is used on the iPad.
    -   <tt>l/apple-touch-icon.png</tt> and <tt>l/apple-touch-icon-precomposed.png</tt>: 57x57 pixel iOS application icon.  This is used on low-resolution iPhone and iPod Touch devices.
    -   <tt>h/splash.png</tt>: 768x1004 splash screen, displayed while loading the app on retina-display iPhone devices.
    -   <tt>l/splash.png</tt>: 320x460 splash screen, displayed while loading the app on low-resolution iPhone and iPod Touch devices.

=== Ready to go!

Now you’re ready to roll!


== License

RLetters is released under the {MIT License}[http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php]:

  Copyright (c) 2011 Charles Pence and University of Notre Dame
  
  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
  deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
  rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
  sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
  
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
  
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
  FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
  IN THE SOFTWARE.
